DesignNotes.md, before:

# Design notes about the SensorVisualizer (SV)

## Widgets

A widget is a window where data being inputted to the system can be visualized.

The following widgets will be implemented:

- **Monitor panel**. A simple window where data is shown. You may format the data as you wish. 
- **Linear Graph**. A plot of numerical data. You may select the scale to be used, fix its axis limits, set the line and point sizes, color...
- **Scatter Plot**. Similar to the last one but without interconnecting lines.
- **Candlestick Chart**. Useful to measure noise in a signal.
- **Inertial 3D View**. Select from an assortment of 3D models and attach the inputs of their XYZ linear acceleration and angular velocity.
- **GPS View**. Opens a plane or a map and draws the trajectory of the device.

All widgets will have a bunch of ***hook*** methods:

- `hookVariable(Variable) -> None`

    A hook will receive a variable as argument and will update the properties of the widget related to that variable. E.g. the Inertial 3D view will have a variable representing the X angular velocity, then, there'll be a function that will receive a new value and move the model accordingly.

To add a widget:

1. Add a widget either by right clicking into empty space in the window or by selecting `Widget` > `Add Widget` > (Select the type of widget).
2. Position the widget wherever it suits you best.
3. Right click over the widget > `Widget configuration`.
4. User is presented with two sections:

    - **Variables**. The linked variable(s) for the visualization.
        - You may select an already used variable by searching for it or you may create a new one.
        - If “New variable” is selected, a new window will open.
        - Once the variable is selected, the program will search for the variable inside `Variable._vbes` and **attach the correspondent hook** to the variable.

    - **Visualization settings**.
        - In the case of graphs, you may select what type of graph to use. For each variable there may be some special fields, such as color, line width…
        - In the case of 3D models, you’ll have to attach rotXYZ, omegaXYZ to an input variable.
        - In the case of trajectory planes, you’ll have to attach the position XYZ to the input variable. 

## Variables

A variable has the following fields:

- `name : str`. The variable name.
- `type : type`. This type should have a constructor to convert from `string` to that `type`.
- `value`. The last received value.
- `lastValues : List[]`. The last received values. It's a FIFO structure. Must contain `value` at position 0.
- `time : List[int]`. An array with the time of reception of all values inside `lastValues`.
- `hooks : List[Callable[Variable, None]]`. Contains the functions of the widgets related to the variable. These functions will 
- Source (maybe it won't be needed?).

All created variables will be stored in a class variable `_vbes : List[Variables]`.

To add them on the “New variable” window:

1. First, select a source from the available sources. If the source you’re looking for doesn’t appear, you’ll have to create it by clicking “New Source”.

2. A list of available names will appear if the source is already giving out data. You may select one from the list or add your own.

3. After that, you'll need to select a type for the variable. The program will automatically try to detect its type it if the source is giving it values. 

## Sources

A source is a class from where the different protocols will inherit. Basically, the class will have the following fields:

- **Preprocessor**. By default, `None`. 
  
  This preprocessor must be a simple program that receives as arguments an input string and shall return over console or stdout the processed field. A field is processed when it follows the following format:

    ```
    {(...),name:value,(...)}
    ```
	
    The structure is very similar to dictionaries in Python but with some key differences:

    - `name` must be a string, but without enclosing quotation marks.
    - `value` can be an integer, float or string. In the case of a string, you can either input it with '', "" or without them. Especial characters can also be written.

A source has the following functions:

- `(abstract) _getInputData() -> str | None`
  
  Returns a string of raw data. This data may or may not be already processed.

- `getDataFields() -> Dict[str,str] | None`
  
  Returns a dictionary with the fields and its values. As it is a dictionary, no repeated values can appear so if the same key were to appear more than once, the values would append to a list associated to the key. If a preprocessor is selected, this function will be called upon to generate the formatted string that will be then parsed as a dictionary.

From the “New source” window:
1.	When selecting a source, first you’ll specify the type of source:

    a. **Serial port**. You’ll be presented with a list of available ports on your computer.

    b. **Ethernet**. You’ll have to specify the port number. If you click on the down arrow, a list of available ports will appear.
    
    c. **ZMQ**.  Same as before (?).

2.	Then, you may opt to add a preprocessor. 

## Extra notes

- All these windows will also be available individually from the toolbar, so you may first add sources and variables and finally the widgets.

Commit message:

Added the main framework for fetching data DataVariables and Data Listeners Implemented serial ports. Next, will implement GUI to test the new stuff

DesignNotes.md, after:

# Design notes about the SensorVisualizer (SV)

## Widgets

A widget is a window where data being inputted to the system can be visualized.

The following widgets will be implemented:

- **Monitor panel**. A simple window where data is shown. You may format the data as you wish. 
- **Linear Graph**. A plot of numerical data. You may select the scale to be used, fix its axis limits, set the line and point sizes, color...
- **Scatter Plot**. Similar to the last one but without interconnecting lines.
- **Candlestick Chart**. Useful to measure noise in a signal.
- **Inertial 3D View**. Select from an assortment of 3D models and attach the inputs of their XYZ linear acceleration and angular velocity.
- **GPS View**. Opens a plane or a map and draws the trajectory of the device.

All widgets will have a bunch of ***hook*** methods:

- `hookVariable(Variable) -> None`

    A hook will receive a variable as argument and will update the properties of the widget related to that variable. E.g. the Inertial 3D view will have a variable representing the X angular velocity, then, there'll be a function that will receive a new value and move the model accordingly.

To add a widget:

1. Add a widget either by right clicking into empty space in the window or by selecting `Widget` > `Add Widget` > (Select the type of widget).
2. Position the widget wherever it suits you best.
3. Right click over the widget > `Widget configuration`.
4. User is presented with two sections:

    - **Variables**. The linked variable(s) for the visualization.
        - You may select an already used variable by searching for it or you may create a new one.
        - If “New variable” is selected, a new window will open.
        - Once the variable is selected, the program will search for the variable inside `Variable._vbes` and **attach the correspondent hook** to the variable.

    - **Visualization settings**.
        - In the case of graphs, you may select what type of graph to use. For each variable there may be some special fields, such as color, line width…
        - In the case of 3D models, you’ll have to attach rotXYZ, omegaXYZ to an input variable.
        - In the case of trajectory planes, you’ll have to attach the position XYZ to the input variable. 

## Variables

A variable has the following fields:

- `name : str`. The variable name. A variable cannot be repeated if it came from the source. It can be repeated if it came from different sources.
- `type : type`. This type should have a constructor to convert from `string` to that `type`.
- `value`. The last received value.
- `lastValues : List[]`. The last received values. It's a FIFO structure. Must contain `value` at position 0.
- `time : List[int]`. An array with the time of reception of all values inside `lastValues`.
- `hooks : List[Callable[Variable, None]]`. Contains the functions of the widgets related to the variable. These functions will 
- Source (maybe it won't be needed?).

All created variables will be stored in a class variable `_vbes : List[Variables]`.

To add them on the “New variable” window:

1. First, select a source from the available sources. If the source you’re looking for doesn’t appear, you’ll have to create it by clicking “New Source”.

2. A list of available names will appear if the source is already giving out data. You may select one from the list or add your own.

3. After that, you'll need to select a type for the variable. The program will automatically try to detect its type it if the source is giving it values. 

## Sources

A source is a class from where the different protocols will inherit. Basically, the class will have the following fields:

- **Preprocessor**. By default, `None`. 
  
  This preprocessor must be a simple program that receives as arguments an input string and shall return over console or stdout the processed field. A field is processed when it follows the following format:

    ```
    {(...),name:value,(...)}
    ```
	
    The structure is very similar to dictionaries in Python but with some key differences:

    - `name` must be a string, but without enclosing quotation marks.
    - `value` can be an integer, float or string.
      - In the case of a string, you can either input it with '', "" or without them. 
      - **Always** use UTF-8 characters.
      - Especial characters can also be directly inserted into the string (`\n`, `\r`, `\t`, `\b` and `\f`).
      - To send binary data, encode it in base 64 (UTF-8 character set) and send it adding a `b` before the message. In this case, is necessary to use quotation marks ("" or ''). Eg: if `hello` is to be sent in base 64, that is `aGVsbG8=`, so send it as: 
        ```
        {(...),greeting:b"aGVsbG8=",(...)}
        ```

A source has the following functions:

- `(abstract) _getInputData() -> str | None`
  
  Returns a string of raw data. This data may or may not be already processed.

- `getDataFields() -> Dict[str,str] | None`
  
  Returns a dictionary with the fields and its values. As it is a dictionary, no repeated values can appear so if the same key were to appear more than once, the values would append to a list associated to the key. If a preprocessor is selected, this function will be called upon to generate the formatted string that will be then parsed as a dictionary.

From the “New source” window:
1.	When selecting a source, first you’ll specify the type of source:

    a. **Serial port**. You’ll be presented with a list of available ports on your computer.

    b. **Ethernet**. You’ll have to specify the port number. If you click on the down arrow, a list of available ports will appear.
    
    c. **ZMQ**.  Same as before (?).

2.	Then, you may opt to add a preprocessor. 

## Extra notes

- All these windows will also be available individually from the toolbar, so you may first add sources and variables and finally the widgets.
